[Iceberg]Support setting warehouse data directory for Hadoop catalog (#24397)
prestodb/presto: presto-docs/src/main/sphinx/connector/iceberg.rst

======================================================= ============================================================= ============
``iceberg.catalog.warehouse``                           The catalog warehouse root path for Iceberg tables.

                                                        Hadoop catalog requires a file system that supports atomic
                                                        rename operation, such as HDFS, to maintain metadata files
                                                        in order to implement atomic transaction commit.

                                                        Example: ``hdfs://nn:8020/warehouse/path``

>                                                         Do not set `iceberg.catalog.warehouse` to a path in object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                                        Do not set ``iceberg.catalog.warehouse`` to a path in object
```

Formatting nit.

                                                        stores or local file systems in the production environment.

                                                        This property is required if the ``iceberg.catalog.type`` is
                                                        ``hadoop``.

``iceberg.catalog.hadoop.warehouse.datadir``            The catalog warehouse root data path for Iceberg tables.

>                                                         Example: ``s3://iceberg_bucket/warehouse``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                                        Example: ``s3://iceberg_bucket/warehouse``.
                                                        
```

Suggest adding some blank lines to space the sentences the same way as in the Description for ``iceberg.catalog.warehouse``. Here's how the two rows look in a local doc build. The second one looks cramped when compared to the first. 

<img width="789" alt="Screenshot 2025-02-05 at 1 26 36 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7a3604e3-3204-4e23-be9e-53ad150f1ab4" />

Author: Following your advice, I made some minor adjustments. Please take a look when available, thanks a lot.

>                                                         This property is only supported with Hadoop catalog. If set,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                                        This property is only supported with Hadoop catalog. 
                                                        
                                                        If set,
```

                                                        This property is required if the ``iceberg.catalog.type`` is
                                                        ``hadoop``.

``iceberg.catalog.warehouse.datadir``                   The catalog warehouse root data path for Iceberg tables.
                                                        Example: ``s3://iceberg_bucket/warehouse``

>                                                         If set, all tables in this hadoop catalog will default to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                                        If set, all tables in this Hadoop catalog will default to
```

                                                        saving their data and delete files in the specified root
                                                        data directory.

``iceberg.catalog.cached-catalog-num``                  The number of Iceberg catalogs to cache. This property is     ``10``
                                                        required if the ``iceberg.catalog.type`` is ``hadoop``.
                                                        Otherwise, it will be ignored.
======================================================= ============================================================= ============

Configure the `Amazon S3 <https://prestodb.io/docs/current/connector/hive.html#amazon-s3-configuration>`_
properties to specify a S3 location as the warehouse data directory for the Hadoop catalog. This way,

> the data and delete files of Iceberg tables are stored in S3. An example configuration includes:

Author: Sure, will supplement the document. To clarify, warehouse data dir needn't to be on a filesystem which supports atomic renames, only warehouse dir (maintaining metadata files) need.

> the data and delete files of Iceberg tables are stored in S3. An example configuration includes:

Reviewer 2: Ah yes, mis-typed. I meant metadata :) . We should just be clear to users what is going to be safe/unsafe

                                                        This property is required if the ``iceberg.catalog.type`` is
                                                        ``hadoop``.

``iceberg.catalog.hadoop.warehouse.datadir``            The catalog warehouse root data path for Iceberg tables.
                                                        Example: ``s3://iceberg_bucket/warehouse``.
                                                        This property is only supported with Hadoop catalog. If set,

>                                                         all tables in this Hadoop catalog will default to saving

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                                                        all tables in this Hadoop catalog default to saving
```

                                                        their data and delete files in the specified root
                                                        data directory.

``iceberg.catalog.cached-catalog-num``                  The number of Iceberg catalogs to cache. This property is     ``10``
                                                        required if the ``iceberg.catalog.type`` is ``hadoop``.
                                                        Otherwise, it will be ignored.
======================================================= ============================================================= ============

.. note::

    Hadoop catalog requires a file system that supports atomic rename operation, such as HDFS,

>     to maintain metadata files in order to implement atomic transaction commit. It's unsafe to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    to maintain metadata files in order to implement atomic transaction commits. Do not
```

>     set `iceberg.catalog.warehouse` to a path in object stores and local file systems. But it's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    set `iceberg.catalog.warehouse` to a path in object stores and local file systems. 
```

>     safe to set `iceberg.catalog.hadoop.warehouse.datadir` to a path in the object stores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Set `iceberg.catalog.hadoop.warehouse.datadir` to a path in the object stores.
```

Author: Thank you @steveburnett for the suggestions. One little difference here is that we want to express that it is safe for users to set `iceberg.catalog.hadoop.warehouse.datadir` to a path in object stores. That is to say, they can point it to an S3 path, an HDFS path, or not specify it at all. Can you give some more advice about it?

Author: So much appreciate for your advice. I like the second option too. Made some little modifications to your wording, because object stores and HDFS are two different types of storage. Please take a look when available.

``location``                               Optionally specifies the file system location URI for
                                           the table.

> ``write_data_path``                        Optionally specifies the file system location URI for

Author: Agree, I think this makes sense. Then how do you think we should handle the previous table properties?

> ``write_data_path``                        Optionally specifies the file system location URI for

Reviewer 2: We don't have to do it in this PR but here's a solution I think would work for deprecation of the old names:

Inside of `IcebergTableProperties` create a map of (new property name -> old property name) say, `deprecatedProperties`. 

Then we update all existing table properties with iceberg-equivalents to the iceberg name (if one exists).

Inside of the constructor or `getTableProperties` method of `IcebergTableProperties`, we take the `deprecatedProperties` map and iterate over of the existing properties and if it has an entry in the `deprecatedProperties` map,  add a new hidden property with the old name and same parameters as the new property.

In each of the `getXXX` methods, we would also need to fall back to checking for the old property name in the map. We would also need a method to add a warning to the session that the table property name is deprecated. We can leave it like that for a few releases and eventually remove the deprecated property names.

> ``write_data_path``                        Optionally specifies the file system location URI for

Author: It sounds good. I have changed the newly added table property name to `data.write.path`, which is exactly the same as Iceberg's corresponding table property name. Please take a look when available, thanks!
